watching you hit as hard as you can
hi I'm Luke Ryan for Joe Blow calm and
welcome to movie endings explain where
we'll be taking a look at some of the
more ambiguous and discussed movie
endings they've left audiences debating
their true meaning long after the
credits of role for this installment we
focus on John Carpenter's seminal sci-fi
horror from 1982 the thing sort of by
many to be a remake of the 1951 film the
thing from another world it's more
accurate to call it another adaptation
of the 1938 novella who goes there and
John Carpenter's big-screen version
toes a little bit more in line with that
original source material the entire film
is set on an American research outpost
in the Antarctic where a group of Mana
faced with an aggressive alien life-form
that assimilates and absorbed the
organic beings it comes into contact
with from dogs to the men themselves
while the incredible practical effects
work that make the titular thing so
jaw-dropping to watch in its
transformative moments the majority of
the film revolves around the creeping
dread and paranoia that envelops the
entire camp when it becomes clear to all
the researchers that any of their fellow
colleagues could in fact be the thing
distrust spreads through the ranks
eventually leaving Kurt Russell's
character McCready in the assumed
position of leader like most horror
films the body count ends up being high
leaving McCready on his own at the end
to blow up the monstrous creature and to
be left as the last man standing
[Music]
however Keith David's character child's
re-emerges at the very end we last saw
him some 15 minutes earlier when he
stayed behind on guard with a
flamethrower
he asked McCready if they killed the
thing and McCready asked the question we
all had at that point he explains he
thought he saw Blair who they had all
suspected was the thing and got lost in
the storm looking for him which is a
sketchy story especially considering the
Blair had in fact gone underground child
takes a seat opposite McCready and the
two apparently except the fact that
they're the last two left alive and the
film ends like this what do we do why
don't we just
wait here for a little while
see what happens
it's a very nihilistic finale to a film
that was fairly bleak to begin with it
doesn't answer the one basic question
that most people likely had are they
really human the film quickly
establishes that the thing can
assimilate a human so perfectly it's
hard to tell the difference there's a
few combinations of outcomes in this
final scene one that they are both human
and wait to simply freeze to death with
the thing finally vanquished - the child
is the thing leaving Macready to either
gasps simulated himself or to kill it
once and for all or three in an
interesting twist that McCready is the
thing and child is the last one alive
you could also round off those
speculations with the idea that they're
both the thing but that makes a little
sense as it wouldn't try to fool itself
it's a bold way to end the film and
ultimately you really can just decide
for yourself what happens after the
credits roll but let's look a little
more closely at the most popular theory
that child's is the thing it makes a lot
of sense we didn't see him for almost a
quarter an hour in the film and he
conveniently appears at the end it just
slots very neatly into place in fact a
hypothetical ending where child's is
revealed to be the thing leaving
McCready to kill it and then die in the
cold satisfied that he stopped the
parasite from spreading to the rest of
humanity would have been a fine way to
close out the film so what points
towards child's being the thing first of
all he's wearing different clothes the
last time we see him he's wearing a blue
jacket and when he reappears he's
wearing more of a brown overcoat it's
entirely possible he changed clothes of
course but why unless the blue coat was
destroyed when the thing ripped through
child's leaving it to grab an extra on
the way out
the first thing child says in the final
scene is this and the Creed he clarifies
as the only one it's almost as if he
caught up on child's or indeed the
things poor choice of words you're the
only one who made it
then there's the bottle of liquor that
McCready offers to child after he says
they should just wait it out and see
what happens
child's takes a sip gratefully and
McCready chuckles dark
now when the others were destroying the
facility to eradicate any possibility of
the thing surviving they used bottles
filled with gasoline some have
speculated that the liquor bottle was
McCready's final ace of his sleep if
Charles was the thing how would this
alien life-form be able to taste the
difference between liquor and gasoline
just as he begins to sip the music
starts up again now you can easily read
this as the beginning of the end of the
scene the music playing over into the
credits and maccreedy is merely
chuckling at the apparent hopelessness
of the situation yet there does seem to
be some weight behind the theory when
you watch the entire scene play out from
Kurt Russell's layered performance he
really does appear to be studying
child's reaction to the liquor in an
expectant way that being said the bottle
in his hand if you look really closely
is the same bottle or at least brand
that McCready was drinking from at the
beginning of the film and just before
Charles makes his presence known
McCready seems to be about to take a sip
from the bottle himself it's impossible
to definitively prove anything here as
he could have just as easily spotted
child in his peripheral vision and was
motioning to drink to make his plan more
believable there's also the commonly
cited clue that McCready's breath is
very visibly seen flowing out of his
mouth throughout this final scene but
there is no sign of data leaving
Charles's mouth well I hate to quash
this one but this can be proven to be
false you do see Charles breath it's
just no one there is obvious which makes
sense given the fact that McCready has
just been running around and fighting
off the thing
whereas child has allegedly just been
walking around in the storm the last
piece of potential evidence comes from
an interesting piece of trivia recently
divulged by director of cinematography
Dean Cundy on the new audio commentary
for the movie he says this so we were
looking for some kind of subtle way to
say which one of these might be human
you'll notice there's always an eye
light we call it a little gleam in the
eye of the actor it gives life
so when the nerve-racking scene where
McCready tests the blood of the other
researchers you can see the eye light in
almost everyone's pupils except for
Palmer he turns out to indeed be the
thing so applying this to the ending of
the film what do we see an eye light in
the creedy's pupils and nothing in
child's dead eyes lightless the thing
lock stock and barrel proved all is it
once again I hate to potentially break
the illusion but Keith David's eyelids
are rather droopy and in this excuse the
phrase blinking you're miss it moment
his eyelids open up a little higher and
we see yeah and I liked Dean can be also
said that it was discussed that it be
revealed or made explicit that one of
the two men were the thing but that John
very deliberately wanted to leave the
question of if one or both or neither of
these guys is the thing Kurt Russell
recently had this to say about the
movies open-ended conclusion John
Carpenter and I worked on the ending of
that movie together for a long time we
were both bringing the audience right
back to square one you've heard McCready
say I know I me well you either believe
him or you don't and child's you know
one of my favorite lines in the movie is
where were you Charles and I think that
basically says it all I love that over
the years that movie has gotten its due
because people were able to get past the
horrific mists of the monster because it
was a horror movie but to see what the
movie was about which was paranoia so
like most of the best head-scratching
endings in film history there isn't
really a cast-iron explanation that
points to a definitive conclusion all I
can say is that the very popular theory
that child isn't breathing and you can't
see his breath is baffling to me as you
can see it if you just watch the entire
scene closely of course the evidence for
child's being the thing quite quickly
stacks up but everything that happens
after those credits roll are really up
to you finally McCready actually did
survive in a few different ways
mostly John Crompton was convinced to
shoot an alternate ending in which
McCready is found and administered a
blood test that proves he's human but
ultimately it was never used and has
never been released
then there's the offshoot comics in
PlayStation 2 video game that both
presents sequel stories in which
McCready survives but the idea of
whether or not comics or video games or
alternate endings that the director
didn't end up using being truly canon is
a minefield unto itself who's to say
that they counsel not sometimes when it
comes to a story so tightly wrapped up
in the theme of paranoia the answer to
whether or not we should try and figure
out this particular movie ending is
simply this
maybe we should thanks for watching
movie endings explained let us know if
there's any details on the thing we
missed out this time around and we'll
see you next time
[Music]
you have to finish off their story
I thought your ending line I thought
this entire ending of the movie was
incredible it would be it would be what
I would would want and I was extremely
happy with it that's where he explained
what he was doing looking for Blair's
irony the only thing we did know at this
point was that McCready was not right
then he could have been I mean he was
just weed on him for a while the two men
are gonna freeze or die or something
they both got a weapon they can kill
each other what are you gonna do
[Music]